---
title: 1.1 Week1 Task1 - Three screen app idea
subtitle: Crowd-Sourced Hyper-Local News Platform
---



This is a series of blogposts written as part of an Internship [@Hasura](https://hasura.io). You can read the previous post at [Introduction](/posts/5) and next post at [Prototype](/posts/7). Scroll to the bottom of this post for all the posts in this series!



---



### 1. Background

The app idea I've chosen to tackle in this internship is close to my personal interests.

In recent modern times, the mainstream news media has shed the fundamentals of true journalism. News companies are backed by huge corporates and even political parties. They serve to fulfil the interests of their owners, sometimes out of pure necessity. It's not to say that all journalists are corrupt or biased, but the economics of news business has come to the point that without these huge backings, it's tough to stay in the competition.

**The idea is to have a hyper-local crowd-sourced news platform where locals of a neighbourhood post news articles relevant to the people of that area. This will help to engage the local community and also to get the truth, corroborated by people, out in the open.**



### 2. Effectiveness

The idea proposed here deals with the cost step by step. Listed are the advantages below:

- Crowdsourced
  - Checks and balances on each other to verify the news and avoid/minimize biases.
  - Initially, contributors won't be compensated monetarily i.e. zero cost of labour.
- Hyperlocal
  - Keep the content relevant to the locals, which encourages them to easily contribute by posting and/or validating too.

  - Reduce the cost by breaking down by geographies. Refer to future business model down below.

    ​

### 3. Initial business model



- The design, development and hosting of the app initially will be bootstrapped. Online donation can be set up for people wanting to support the website.

- Free to access content

- No compensation for contributors

- No revenue

  ​

### 4. MVP feature list



1. Post news article (anonymous )

2. Validate other news articles

3. Read validated news

4. Only one fictitious area supported.

5. 50% registered

   ​

### 5. Future features



1. Log In / Sign Up

2. Edit validated posts, validate edits, edit history.

3. Automatic GPS based access to local area version of the site/news.

   ​

### 6. Future business model



- Advertisement spots for local businesses, relevant to the local audience.
- Donation open only to locals

_Not sure how to go about contributor compensation yet._



### 7. Competitors in the market



- NearFox - based in Mumbai

  - more focused on local events, discussions, entertainment instead of hardcore news
  - Android app only
  - https://www.indianweb2.com/2015/10/28/locality-app-nearfox-provides-crowdsourced-news-happennings-of-your-neighbourhood/

- Local Press Co. - based in Mumbai

  - good features
    - radius preference, 
    - commenting-sharing, 
    - push notification, 
    - video reports, 
    - trending news
    - ‘vouch’ or ‘dismiss’ to add or remove credibility
    - location service for pinning report to a location, served to vicinity users
  - has transformed to a more traditional news company now
  - Android & iOS app
  - http://techstory.in/local-press/

- Fresco

  - Uber of news. TV stations (consumer/rider) notifies about breaking news. People (driver) volunteer photo/video coverage and get paid.

- Denverite

  ​

### 8. Related Research



- [Location-based **crowdsourcing **of **hyperlocal **news: dimensions of participation preferences](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2389189)

- [Readers' motivations to participate in **hyperlocal **news content creation](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2389234)

- [Real-time task assignment in **hyperlocal **spatial **crowdsourcing **under budget constraints](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7456507/)

  ​

### 9. Problems to figure out



- Anonymity?

- How many people enough to call an article validated
  - 50% registered people?
  - X number of people?

- Should access to news of other regions be allowed? What if GPS is down.

  ​

### 10. Disadvantages of the idea at the core

- People can mobilise biased support

  ​


---



### Follow this series here:

0. [Introduction](/posts/5)


1. Week 1

   1.1 [App Idea](/posts/6)

   1.2 [Prototype](/posts/7)

2. Week 2

   2.1 [Env Setup](/posts/8)

   2.2 [Learn Git](/posts/9)

   2.3 [Install Hasura](/posts/10)

3. Week 3

   3.1 [Data Model](/posts/11)

   3.2 [Hasura Data API](/posts/12)

   3.3 [Hasura Auth API](/posts/13)

4. Week 4

   4.1 [Screen 1 - UI+Backend](/posts/14)

   4.2 [Update 1 to 3.1 - 3.3](/posts/15)

5. Week 5

   5.1 [Screen 2 - UI+Backend](/posts/16)

   5.2 [Update 2 to 3.1 - 3.3](/posts/17)

6. Week 6

   6.1 [Screen 3 - UI+Backend](/posts/18)

   6.2 [Update 3 to 3.1 - 3.3](/posts/19)

7. Week 7

   7.1 [User feedback & Testing](/posts/20)

   7.2 [Updates to 3 - 6](/posts/21)

8. Week 8

   8.1 [FINAL App Submission](/posts/22)