---
title: 2.2 Week2 Task2 - Learn Git 
subtitle: Some useful resources
---



This is a series of blogposts written as part of an Internship [@Hasura](https://hasura.io). You can read the previous post at [Env Setup](/posts/7) and next post at [Installing Hasura](/posts/9). Scroll to the bottom of this post for all the posts in this series!



------



Even having using Git for some time now there are a few resources for that I constantly keep going back to refer to from time to time. I've listed them here below for it might come in handy to someone:



### 1. Git Basics

There's this beautiful answer on StackOverflow that explains several of the most important concepts of version control and how they're handled in the awesome program `git` by Linus Torvalds. 

These concepts include Repositories, Branches, Fetching,  Merging, Squashing, Forks, Clones, etc.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3329943/git-branch-fork-fetch-merge-rebase-and-clone-what-are-the-differences/9204499#9204499



### 2. Handy practice tool

The best way to practice `git` is to install and try it on your machine. The second best way is this webapp by Github.

https://try.github.io.



### 3. Branches

In the FOSS world, as hundreds of people work together on a project repository, it becomes very essential to make every new feature in it's own feature branch. But managing between branches with quite a lot of commands can be intimidating especially when you don't want to make a mistake.

I personally forget the commands and it really helps to visualise what the commands do with respect to the branches in the form of a visual tree! This site uses D3.js , a powerful visualisation library to explain that.

https://onlywei.github.io/explain-git-with-d3/



### 4. Git Cheatsheet

And lastly this website shows you how different commands link the different workspaces (stash, local, remote, upstream) together ! It's really neat.

http://ndpsoftware.com/git-cheatsheet.html



------



### Follow this series here:

0. [Introduction](/posts/5)


1. Week 1

   1.1 [App Idea](/posts/6)

   1.2 [Prototype](/posts/7)

2. Week 2

   2.1 [Env Setup](/posts/8)

   2.2 [Learn Git](/posts/9)

   2.3 [Install Hasura](/posts/10)

3. Week 3

   3.1 [Data Model](/posts/11)

   3.2 [Hasura Data API](/posts/12)

   3.3 [Hasura Auth API](/posts/13)

4. Week 4

   4.1 [Screen 1 - UI+Backend](/posts/14)

   4.2 [Update 1 to 3.1 - 3.3](/posts/15)

5. Week 5

   5.1 [Screen 2 - UI+Backend](/posts/16)

   5.2 [Update 2 to 3.1 - 3.3](/posts/17)

6. Week 6

   6.1 [Screen 3 - UI+Backend](/posts/18)

   6.2 [Update 3 to 3.1 - 3.3](/posts/19)

7. Week 7

   7.1 [User feedback & Testing](/posts/20)

   7.2 [Updates to 3 - 6](/posts/21)

8. Week 8

   8.1 [FINAL App Submission](/posts/22)

